Readme.md, before:

Adjusted the code (Original author: 1996scarlet) to fit our needs for the "Praxisseminar" course at 
the University of Regensburg in the summer semester 2021 as a webcam eye-tracking
library that would work well enough to extract precise enough data to measure a
user's workload while playing a video game.

### Requirements:
Python 3.9 is recommended, but 3.8 and 3.7 should also work fine.

For other requirements have a look at the [requirements.txt](requirements.txt).

### Generating an exe file for the tracking system:
1. Comment out the config parsing in the logger ('get_server_credentials()') and add server credentials directly in
the code.

2. For creating exe with auto-py-to-exe:
* select --onefile and window mode
* add-data: ```C:/Users/[user]/Documents/GitHub/Praxisseminar-Webcam-Tracking-System/weights```
* add-data: ```C:/Users/[user]/AppData/Local/Programs/Python/Python39/Lib/site-packages/mxnet``` (or wherever mxnet 
  has been installed)
* add-data: ```C:/Users/[user]/Documents/GitHub/Praxisseminar-Webcam-Tracking-System/tracking_service```
* add hidden-imports: ```pandas```, ```pysftp```, ```requests``` and ```plyer.platforms.win.notification```
  (for plyer import see https://stackoverflow.com/questions/56281839/issue-with-plyer-library-of-python-when-creating-a-executable-using-pyinstaller)
* exclude module: matplotlib

3. Pyinstaller command for the above:
```shell
pyinstaller --noconfirm --onefile --windowed --add-data "C:/Users/[user]/AppData/Local/Programs/Python/Python39/Lib/site-packages/mxnet;mxnet/" --add-data "C:/Users/[user]/Documents/GitHub/Praxisseminar-Webcam-Tracking-System/weights;weights/" --add-data "C:/Users/[user]/Documents/GitHub/Praxisseminar-Webcam-Tracking-System/tracking_service;tracking_service/" --hidden-import "plyer.platforms.win.notification" --hidden-import "pandas" --hidden-import "pysftp" --hidden-import "requests" --exclude-module "matplotlib" "C:/Users/[user]/Documents/GitHub/Praxisseminar-Webcam-Tracking-System/tracking/tracker.py"
```

# Original Documentation below:

## Laser Eye : Gaze Estimation via Deep Neural Networks

![BootJump](./asset/logo.webp)

## Installation

### Requirements

* Python 3.5+
* Linux, Windows or macOS
* mxnet (>=1.4)

While not required, for optimal performance(especially for the detector) it is highly recommended to run the code using a CUDA enabled GPU.

### Run

* Prepare an usb camera or some videos
* [Optional] More Accurate Face Alignment
  * Download [Hourglass2(d=3)-CAB pre-trained model](https://github.com/deepinx/deep-face-alignment)
  * Replace `MobileAlignmentorModel` with `CabAlignmentorModel`
* `python3 video_gaze_test.py`

### Tips

* Edit`MxnetDetectionModel`'s `scale` parameter to make a suitable input size of face detector
* More details at [Wiki](https://github.com/1996scarlet/Laser-Eye/wiki)

## Gaze Estimation for MMD Face Capture

<p align="center"><img src="https://s1.ax1x.com/2020/10/24/BVmyWt.gif" /></p>

* Try with [Open Vtuber](https://github.com/1996scarlet/OpenVtuber)

## Face Detection

* [RetinaFace: Single-stage Dense Face Localisation in the Wild](https://arxiv.org/abs/1905.00641)
* [faster-mobile-retinaface (MobileNet Backbone)](https://github.com/1996scarlet/faster-mobile-retinaface)

## Facial Landmarks Detection

* MobileNet-v2 version (1.4MB, using by default)
* [Hourglass2(d=3)-CAB version (37MB)](https://github.com/deepinx/deep-face-alignment)

## Head Pose Estimation

* [head-pose-estimation](https://github.com/lincolnhard/head-pose-estimation)

## Iris Segmentation

* [U-Net version (model size 71KB, TVCG 2019)](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8818661)

## Citation

``` bibtex
@article{wang2019realtime,
  title={Realtime and Accurate 3D Eye Gaze Capture with DCNN-based Iris and Pupil Segmentation},
  author={Wang, Zhiyong and Chai, Jinxiang and Xia, Shihong},
  journal={IEEE transactions on visualization and computer graphics},
  year={2019},
  publisher={IEEE}
}

@inproceedings{deng2019retinaface,
  title={RetinaFace: Single-stage Dense Face Localisation in the Wild},
  author={Deng, Jiankang and Guo, Jia and Yuxiang, Zhou and Jinke Yu and Irene Kotsia and Zafeiriou, Stefanos},
  booktitle={arxiv},
  year={2019}
}
```

Commit message:

Add d3dshot library and remove game data logging

Readme.md, after:

Adjusted the code (Original author: 1996scarlet) to fit our needs for the "Praxisseminar" course at 
the University of Regensburg in the summer semester 2021 as a webcam eye-tracking
library that would work well enough to extract precise enough data to measure a
user's workload while playing a video game.

### Requirements:
Python 3.9 is recommended, but 3.8 and 3.7 should also work fine.

This version uses d3dshot to capture screenshots. d3dshot tries to install pillow from source when installing with pip
which might lead to some errors (about missing zlib headers).
Because of this d3dshot needs to be installed manually:
- download / clone the repo for d3dshot (https://github.com/SerpentAI/D3DShot)
- change the pillow version in the pyproject.toml-file in the repo to the one that is currently installed on the system
- then run `python -m pip install .` in the root folder of the downloaded repo to install d3dshot correctly

For other requirements have a look at the [requirements.txt](requirements.txt).

### Generating an exe file for the tracking system:
1. Comment out the config parsing in the logger ('get_server_credentials()') and add server credentials directly in
the code.

2. For creating exe with auto-py-to-exe:
* select --onefile and window mode
* add-data: ```C:/Users/[user]/Documents/GitHub/Praxisseminar-Webcam-Tracking-System/weights```
* add-data: ```C:/Users/[user]/AppData/Local/Programs/Python/Python39/Lib/site-packages/mxnet``` (or wherever mxnet 
  has been installed)
* add-data: ```C:/Users/[user]/Documents/GitHub/Praxisseminar-Webcam-Tracking-System/tracking_service```
* add hidden-imports: ```pandas```, ```pysftp```, ```requests``` and ```plyer.platforms.win.notification```
  (for plyer import see https://stackoverflow.com/questions/56281839/issue-with-plyer-library-of-python-when-creating-a-executable-using-pyinstaller)
* exclude module: matplotlib

3. Pyinstaller command for the above:
```shell
pyinstaller --noconfirm --onefile --windowed --add-data "C:/Users/[user]/AppData/Local/Programs/Python/Python39/Lib/site-packages/mxnet;mxnet/" --add-data "C:/Users/[user]/Documents/GitHub/Praxisseminar-Webcam-Tracking-System/weights;weights/" --add-data "C:/Users/[user]/Documents/GitHub/Praxisseminar-Webcam-Tracking-System/tracking_service;tracking_service/" --hidden-import "plyer.platforms.win.notification" --hidden-import "pandas" --hidden-import "pysftp" --hidden-import "requests" --exclude-module "matplotlib" "C:/Users/[user]/Documents/GitHub/Praxisseminar-Webcam-Tracking-System/tracking/tracker.py"
```

# Original Documentation below:

## Laser Eye : Gaze Estimation via Deep Neural Networks

![BootJump](./asset/logo.webp)

## Installation

### Requirements

* Python 3.5+
* Linux, Windows or macOS
* mxnet (>=1.4)

While not required, for optimal performance(especially for the detector) it is highly recommended to run the code using a CUDA enabled GPU.

### Run

* Prepare an usb camera or some videos
* [Optional] More Accurate Face Alignment
  * Download [Hourglass2(d=3)-CAB pre-trained model](https://github.com/deepinx/deep-face-alignment)
  * Replace `MobileAlignmentorModel` with `CabAlignmentorModel`
* `python3 video_gaze_test.py`

### Tips

* Edit`MxnetDetectionModel`'s `scale` parameter to make a suitable input size of face detector
* More details at [Wiki](https://github.com/1996scarlet/Laser-Eye/wiki)

## Gaze Estimation for MMD Face Capture

<p align="center"><img src="https://s1.ax1x.com/2020/10/24/BVmyWt.gif" /></p>

* Try with [Open Vtuber](https://github.com/1996scarlet/OpenVtuber)

## Face Detection

* [RetinaFace: Single-stage Dense Face Localisation in the Wild](https://arxiv.org/abs/1905.00641)
* [faster-mobile-retinaface (MobileNet Backbone)](https://github.com/1996scarlet/faster-mobile-retinaface)

## Facial Landmarks Detection

* MobileNet-v2 version (1.4MB, using by default)
* [Hourglass2(d=3)-CAB version (37MB)](https://github.com/deepinx/deep-face-alignment)

## Head Pose Estimation

* [head-pose-estimation](https://github.com/lincolnhard/head-pose-estimation)

## Iris Segmentation

* [U-Net version (model size 71KB, TVCG 2019)](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8818661)

## Citation

``` bibtex
@article{wang2019realtime,
  title={Realtime and Accurate 3D Eye Gaze Capture with DCNN-based Iris and Pupil Segmentation},
  author={Wang, Zhiyong and Chai, Jinxiang and Xia, Shihong},
  journal={IEEE transactions on visualization and computer graphics},
  year={2019},
  publisher={IEEE}
}

@inproceedings{deng2019retinaface,
  title={RetinaFace: Single-stage Dense Face Localisation in the Wild},
  author={Deng, Jiankang and Guo, Jia and Yuxiang, Zhou and Jinke Yu and Irene Kotsia and Zafeiriou, Stefanos},
  booktitle={arxiv},
  year={2019}
}
```
